Update Model Card for Mamba (#37863)
huggingface/transformers: docs/source/en/model_doc/mamba.md

-->

<div style="float: right;">
  <div class="flex flex-wrap space-x-1">
    <img alt="PyTorch" src="https://img.shields.io/badge/PyTorch-DE3412?style=flat&logo=pytorch&logoColor=white">
    <img alt="FlashAttention" src="https://img.shields.io/badge/%E2%9A%A1%EF%B8%8E%20FlashAttention-eae0c8?style=flat">

>     <img alt="SDPA" src="https://img.shields.io/badge/SDPA-DE3412?style=flat&logo=pytorch&logoColor=white">

Author: Updated as discussed.

  </div>
</div>

# Mamba

> [Mamba](https://huggingface.co/papers/2312.00752) is a new `state space model` architecture that rivals the classic Transformers. The architecture stacks `mixer` layers, which are the equivalent of `Attention` layers. The core logic of `mamba` is held in the `MambaMixer` class.

Author: Updated as discussed.

> You can find all the original Mamba checkpoints under the [state-spaces](https://huggingface.co/state-spaces) organization.

Author: Updated as discussed.

> # Usage

Author: Updated as discussed.

> [!TIP]
> Click on the Mamba models in the right sidebar for more examples of how to apply Mamba to different language tasks.

The example below demonstrates how to generate text with [`Pipeline`], [`AutoModel`], and from the command line.

<hfoptions id="usage">
<hfoption id="Pipeline">

```py
import torch
from transformers import pipeline

pipeline = pipeline(
    task="text-generation",
    model="state-spaces/mamba-130m-hf",
    torch_dtype=torch.float16,
    device=0
)
pipeline("Plants create energy through a process known as")
```

</hfoption>
<hfoption id="AutoModel">

> ```py

Author: Updated as discussed.

from transformers import MambaConfig, MambaForCausalLM, AutoTokenizer
import torch

tokenizer = AutoTokenizer.from_pretrained("state-spaces/mamba-130m-hf")
model = MambaForCausalLM.from_pretrained("state-spaces/mamba-130m-hf")
input_ids = tokenizer("Plants create energy through a process known as", return_tensors= "pt")["input_ids"]

out = model.generate(input_ids, max_new_tokens=10)
print(tokenizer.batch_decode(out))
```

</hfoption>

> <hfoption id="transformers-cli">

Author: Updated as discussed.

```bash

> echo -e "Plants create energy through a process known as" | transformers-cli run --task text-generation --model state-spaces/mamba-130m-hf --device 0

Author: Updated as discussed.

```

</hfoption>
</hfoptions>

## Notes

> - The current implementation leverages the original cuda kernels: the equivalent of flash attention for Mamba are hosted in the [`mamba-ssm`](https://github.com/state-spaces/mamba) and the [`causal_conv1d`](https://github.com/Dao-AILab/causal-conv1d) repositories. Make sure to install them if your hardware supports them!

Reviewer: Remove the `\` at the end of the code block.

```suggestion
- The current implementation uses the original CUDA kernels. The FlashAttention equivalent implementation is hosted in the [mamba-ssm](https://github.com/state-spaces/mamba) and [causal_conv1d](https://github.com/Dao-AILab/causal-conv1d) repositories. Make sure to install them if your hardware supports it!
- Mamba stacks `mixer` layers which are equivalent to `Attention` layers. You can find the main logic of Mamba in the `MambaMixer` class.
- The example below demonstrates how to fine-tune Mamba with [PEFT](https://huggingface.co/docs/peft).

   ```py
   from datasets import load_dataset
   from trl import SFTTrainer
   from peft import LoraConfig
   from transformers import AutoTokenizer, AutoModelForCausalLM, TrainingArguments
   
   model_id = "state-spaces/mamba-130m-hf"
   tokenizer = AutoTokenizer.from_pretrained(model_id)
   model = AutoModelForCausalLM.from_pretrained(model_id)
   dataset = load_dataset("Abirate/english_quotes", split="train")
   training_args = TrainingArguments(
       output_dir="./results",
       num_train_epochs=3,
       per_device_train_batch_size=4,
       logging_dir='./logs',
       logging_steps=10,
       learning_rate=2e-3
   )
   lora_config =  LoraConfig(
           r=8,
           target_modules=["x_proj", "embeddings", "in_proj", "out_proj"],
           task_type="CAUSAL_LM",
           bias="none"
   )
   trainer = SFTTrainer(
       model=model,
       processing_class=tokenizer,
      args=training_args,
       peft_config=lora_config,
       train_dataset=dataset,
       dataset_text_field="quote",
   )
   trainer.train()
   \```
```

Author: Updated as discussed.
